Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. a way to command the computer to create and run programs via source code.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Develpoment Kit composed of libraries and other files JVM uses at runtime.

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs
with a code editor, a compiler or interpreter and a debugger all under one GUI.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Visual studio, PyCharm, Atom, Xcode, JDeveloper, and BlueJ

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. code/text editor -> code is written in editor and is now source code -> compiler -> .class bytecode file <-> Java Libraries ->
(class loader -> bytecode verifier -> interpreter)- JVM which is hosted on the OS

what is class?
A. A class definition defines instance and class variables and methods, 
as well as specifying the interfaces the class implements and the immediate superclass of the class.

What is object?
A. The principal building blocks of object-oriented programs. 
Each object is a programming unit consisting of data ( instance variables ) and functionality ( instance methods ). 

What is the entry point of an application?
A. the main method

Why main is static?
A. This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path of classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Java interface methods are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. 
A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, not directly.
from interface, (only one abstract) any variables declared are static final by default and should be initialized.
An Abstract class is a class that can contain abstract methods or concrete methods( methods those have body) or both.

what is Access Specifier?
A. The Java access modifiers private and protected cannot be assigned to a class. Only to constructors, methods 
and fields inside classes. Classes can only have the default (package) and public access modifier assigned to them.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object oriented programming. 
-Abstraction: hiding the internal details and describing things in simple terms. 
-Encapsulation: implement abstraction in object oriented programming, used for access restriction to a class members and methods. 
uses "private", "protected", "public" keywords.
-Polymorphism:concept where an object behaves differently in different situations. 
There are two types of polymorphism – compile time polymorphism and runtime polymorphism.
-Inheritance: concept where an object is based on another object. Inheritance is the mechanism of code reuse. 
The object that is getting inherited is called superclass and the object that inherits the superclass is called subclass.
-Association:defines relationship between objects. defines multiplicity between objects.
-Aggregation: special type of association. In aggregation, objects have their own life cycle but there is an ownership.
-Composition: special case of aggregation. Composition is a more restrictive form of aggregation.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. A Java package organizes Java classes into namespaces, providing a unique namespace for each type it contains. 
Classes in the same package can access each other's package-private and protected members.  
java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it. 

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. An application program interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications.
used java, C++, SDK, ALM

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. can never occur because there is no multiple inheritance. happens because dynamic loading of classes makes implementing multiple 
classes unreasonable.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists 
are different. happens when number, data type, and sequence of data type parameters are changed but the rest of the code is the same.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. An exception (or exceptional event) is a problem that arises during the execution of a program. Use Try-catch-finially OR the 
try-with-resource approach to handle exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. static is a non-access modifier in Java which is applicable for the following:
blocks
variables
methods
nested classes
When a variable is declared as static, then a single copy of variable is created and shared among all objects at class level.
Static variables are, essentially, global variables. 

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. used in different contexts. First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. 
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. 
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected. 

What is a constructor ?
A. constructor is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created. Doesn't have return types
and are not members of the class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. if no constructoer declared, default constructor will be generated by the compiler; any member variable not initialized when declared
will be null.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. It can be used to refer instance 
variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Super is a keyword used in java to refer the super class or base class.
It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.
Private methods of the super-class cannot be called. Only public and protected methods can be called by the super keyword. 

What is JVM stand for ?
A. java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A. No, the JVM must be platform dependent to allow your Java to run on the specific platform.

What version of java are you using?
A. version 10.0.2

What is JAR stand for ?
A. A JAR (Java ARchive) is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files 
and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. The JDK is a superset of the JRE, and contains everything that is in the JRE, 
plus tools such as the compilers and debuggers necessary for developing applets and applications.
The Java Virtual machine (JVM) is the virtual machine that runs the Java bytecodes. The JVM doesn't understand Java source code,
that's why you compile your *.java files to obtain *.class files that contain the bytecodes understood by the JVM.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. The Java Virtual machine (JVM) is the virtual machine that runs the Java bytecodes. The JVM doesn't understand Java source code,
that's why you compile your *.java files to obtain *.class files that contain the bytecodes understood by the JVM.
The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) provides the libraries, the Java Virtual Machine, 
and other components to run applets and applications written in the Java programming language. Also has 2 key technologies:
Java Plug-in, which enables applets to run in popular browsers; and 
Java Web Start, which deploys standalone applications over a network.

What is compile time and run time?
A. The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. 
This compilation process is referred to as compile time. A compiled program can be opened and run by a user.
The amount of time the program is run is called runtime.

What is heap?
A. The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
A. Java Memory Management, with its built-in garbage collection, allows developers to create new objects without worrying 
explicitly about memory allocation 
and deallocation, because the garbage collector automatically reclaims memory for reuse.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable, if you try to alter their values, another object gets created, whereas StringBuffer
and StringBuilder are mutable so they can change their values. 

What is Singleton class?
A. a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. 
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.
This mechanism is used to persist the object.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.  You use the transient keyword to indicate to the Java virtual machine
that the indicated variable is not part of the persistent state of the object.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. in while loops, the test expression is checked at first
in do...while loops, code is executed at first then the condition is checked

What is Enum?
A. special type of java class used to define collections of constants; can contain constants, methods, etc.

What is Iterator?
A. Iterator takes the place of Enumeration in the Java collections framework. Iterators differ from Enumerations in two ways: 
Iterators allow the caller to remove elements from the underlying collection during the iteration with well-defined semantics.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. int = 4 bytes
integer = 16 bytes
integer takes more memory

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial collector: designed for single-threaded environments, freezes all application threads whenever it’s working.
parallell collector: can use multiple threads to scan through and compact the heap

What is JIT stands for?
A. just in time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.
Note that the JVM uses more memory than just the heap.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. System.gc() and Runtime.gc() are hooks to request the JVM to initiate the garbage collection process.
It can choose to reject the request and so it is not guaranteed that these calls will do the garbage collection. 

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is commonly used by programs which require the ability to examine or modify 
the runtime behavior of applications running in the Java virtual machine. 

what is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
Guarentees no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A. frameworks are web-based software libraries that provide the user interface, or "view-layer", of Java web applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. JUnit, REST assured, Selenium, TestNG, Mockito, cucumber, spock framework, spring test

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. scope, testNG can do more; TestNG is more advance in parameterize testing, dependency testing and suite testing (Grouping concept).

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. 

what is dependency injection in java?
A. The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control.
A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Actual object is used for binding. It is also called early binding because binding happens during compilation.
It is also called late binding because binding happens at run time. 
Method overloading is the best example of static binding. Method overriding is the best example of dynamic binding.








